{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf110
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12940\viewh13320\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Ghost = solid-colored, non-black-or-white headbands\
\
What to do when . . .\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 When a player puts on a \'93Dusty Diadem\'94:\
	- Felix, Eidola, Salo, Hiems, Cryseon, Meizon, Maxenes, Delia, and Moenia: First time putting on the diadem? Get a card from J envelope. Afterwards, the Grand Blessing just goes back into action.\
\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
	- Everyone else: You take 4 units of psychic damage, to a minimum of 0, every time you put on the Diadem.\
\
When a player puts on a \'93Shiny Diadem\'94:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Felix, Eidola, Salo, Hiems, Cryseon, Meizon, Maxenes: First time putting on the diadem? Get a card from I envelope. Afterwards, the Blessing just goes back into action.\
	- Everyone else: You take two units of psychic damage every time you put the Diadem on.\
\
When the Bag of White Powder is put into/thrown onto the altar while the flame is on, sudden, forceful explosion! Everyone in the room dies. Items are unharmed.\
\
When someone eats the \'93Sparkly Green Fluid,\'94 ask whether they are suffering from any sort of physical or mental illness, and whether they have acute poison resistance. \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
They feel dizzy for five minutes. If they are an alcoholic (or have addictive tendencies, in Eidola\'92s case), have them roll a \ul d20\ulnone ; if they roll above 8, their alcoholism/addictive tendencies is now cured, and they have no addictive tendencies whatsoever for the rest of game.\
\
When someone dies:\
Make sure the person plays their body for 5 minutes. Then, they should come tell a GM. If that person is not Soulless (i.e.- is not pre-Soul-recovery Moenia), they should go get a Ghost greensheet from the F envelope and follow it.\
\
When somebody needs to know a birthday (because Prym knows from a ritual or if a family member just ought to know):\
Birthdays of everyone in game+a few other relevant people (Prym may get a mechanic that lets him ask the GMs for people\'92s birthdays); this mechanic works even if he gets someone\'92s longtime alias (Moenia and Delia):\
Hiems Coronus- December 20, 249\
Cryseon Agathos- July 12, in the year 253\
Meizon Agathos- April 3, in the year 256\
Eidola Agathos- March 3, in the year 279\
Prymnesios Olethron- November 7, in the year 276\
Leda Mero- June 1, in the year of 245\
Izdubar Sharo- May 1, in the year 248\
Felix Coronus- June 30, in the year 274\
Maxenes Astea- January 5, in the year 281\
Salo Coronus- June 28, in the year 279\
Fresh Nea- February 16, in the year 268\
Semiramis Ramina- January 3, in the year 281 (she does not know this at game start)\
Paldeen Sharo- September 23, in the year 252\
Moenia Sol (a.k.a- Thoesi Agathos)- June 2, in the year 275\
Delia Armata (a.k.a.- Lilia Serta)- May 20, in the year 272\
Smaragdos (dead)- August 4, 30 years before the beginning of the Sabine empire\
Cerintha Coronus (dead)- May 29, in the year 252\
Memnon Olethron (dead)- November 22, 244\
Musa Astea (dead)- July 17, in the year 259\
Polutrupon Astea (dead)- September 26, in the year 260\
\
When a Blackguard player tells you out-of-character that they just used Sly Poisoning on a victim, then ask the victim out-of-character whether they are currently immune to Acute Poisoning effects. If not, then they die immediately.\
\
When the players start saying heretical, anti-prophecy things, then there is a terrifying rainless thunderstorm that whips the waves into a frenzy.\
\
\
Appraise:\
#0006-0012-> Players ask a GM for appraisals if they think the item is worth more than a first glance suggests. If a player comes to you for this, ask them what they think the item actually is.\
#0006 is actually brown sugar and is worth less than one coin. If the character thinks it\'92s something else (explosives, drugs, etc.), then improvise accordingly.\
#0007 is experimental explosive of unknown value.  If the character thinks it\'92s something else (flour, drugs, etc.), then improvise accordingly.\
#0008-> actually a Blackguard poisoned, paralyzing cloth of unappraisable value. If the character thinks it\'92s something else (ancient artifact, etc.), then improvise accordingly.\
#0009-> actually a Blackguard poisoned, killing needle of unappraisable value. If the character thinks it\'92s something else (ancient artifact, etc.), then improvise accordingly.\
#0010-> local fruit worth less than 1 coin, unless it\'92s been tampered with. Anything containing Soulblade potions/Blackguard poisons is now of unknown value.\
#0011-> Wedding Bread worth less than 1 coin, unless it\'92s been tampered with. Anything containing Soulblade potions/Blackguard poisons is now of unknown value.\
#0012-> pastry worth less than 1 coin, unless it\'92s been tampered with. Anything containing Soulblade potions/Blackguard poisons is now of unknown value.\
 #0014-> faked Diadem worth 10 coins (if the player thinks it\'92s real, say it\'92s worth a million coins plus). \
#0015-> real Diadem worth at least a million gold coins (if the player thinks it\'92s fake, say it\'92s worth under 100 coins).\
#0024-0031 and 5555 don\'92t actually exist in game.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\fs30 \cf0 The country which ends with less damage wins. If there is not a royal wedding with two people wishing 10 years of each other in age, the apocalypse gets triggered, and everyone takes an automatic +4 damage. 
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 0 damage = the country is absolutely fine
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 4 damage = hundreds of civilians die; the economy goes into a downtown for a year or two
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 7 damage = thousands of civilians die; cities and other resources are wrecked, the economy tanks for a decade or so
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 10 damage = the country is absolutely wrecked, the government falls apart, massive starvation, everyone flees or dies
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 above 12 damage = the country becomes a wasteland, uninhabitable for humans
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs30 \cf0 EDD \'a0
\b0 = Etruria\'92s defense die = 1d2; 
\b EDM 
\b0 \'a0= Etruria\'92s defense max = 2
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs30 SDD \'a0
\b0 = Scythia\'92s defense die = 1; 
\b SDM 
\b0 \'a0= Scythia\'92s defense max = 1
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs30 EAD \'a0
\b0 = Etruria\'92s attack die = 1d4+3; 
\b EAM 
\b0 \'a0= Etruria\'92s attack max = 7
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\b\fs30 SAD \'a0
\b0 = Scythia\'92s attack die = 1d8+2; 
\b SAM 
\b0 \'a0= Scythia\'92s attack max = 10
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf0 Possible orders [convert from the machines]:
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 0- peace [represented by 0 or 4 on the Scythian machine, and 2 on the Etruscan machine]
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 1- moderate defensive maneuvers [represented by 1 on the Etruscan machine]
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 2- all-out offensive  [represented by 2 on the Scythian machine, and 0 on the Etruscan machine]
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf0 If both say 0, then Etruria\'92s score = Scythia\'92s score = 0.
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 If both say 1, then roll a 1d2. If the result is 1, there is no escalation; Etruria\'92s score = Scythia\'92s defense max and Scythia\'92s score = Etruria\'92s defense max. If the result is 2, there is escalation to all-out war; Etruria\'92s score = Scythia\'92s attack die (minimum = Scythia\'92s defense max), and Scythia\'92s score = Etruria\'92s attack die (minimum = Etruria\'92s defense max).
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 If both say 2, then all-out war; \'a0Etruria\'92s score = Scythia\'92s attack die (minimum = Scythia\'92s defense max), and Scythia\'92s score = Etruria\'92s attack die (minimum = Etruria\'92s defense max).
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf0 Damage taken by each country (add 4 from apocalypse, if applicable):
\f2\fs24 \

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1400\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3040\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4020\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2800\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Etruria\'92s order = 0
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Etruria\'92s order = 1
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Etruria\'92s order = 2
\f2\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1400\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3040\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4020\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2800\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Scythia\'92s order = 0
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 E = 0
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = 0
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Roll a 1d4.
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 If 1, 2, 3\{
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 E = SDD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EDM
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 \}
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 If 4, escalation to full war\{
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 E = SAD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 \}
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 E = SAD-1
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAM
\f2\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1400\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3040\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4020\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2800\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Scythia\'92s order = 1
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Roll a 1d4.
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 If 1, 2, 3\{
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 E = SDM
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EDD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 \}
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 If 4, escalation to full war\{
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 E = SAD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 \}
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Roll a 1d2.
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 If 1\{
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 E = SDM
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EDM
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 \}
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 If 2\{
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 E = SAD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 \}
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 E = SAD
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAM
\f2\fs24 \cell \row

\itap1\trowd \taflags1 \trgaph108\trleft-108 \trbrdrl\brdrnil \trbrdrt\brdrnil \trbrdrr\brdrnil 
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth1400\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx2160
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth3040\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx4320
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth4020\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx6480
\clvertalt \clshdrawnil \clwWidth2800\clftsWidth3 \clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\brdrcf0 \clpadt140 \clpadl140 \clpadb140 \clpadr140 \gaph\cellx8640
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 Scythia\'92s order = 2
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 E = SAM
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAD-1
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 E = SAM
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAD
\f2\fs24 \cell 
\pard\intbl\itap1\pardeftab720\sl320\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf0 E = SAM
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs26 S = EAM
\f2\fs24 \cell \lastrow\row
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl400\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf0 GM place\'92s packets:\
A packet- truthing
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 B- Psychic health potion
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 C- Alcoholism remedy potion
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 D- Acute poison remedy potion
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 E- Chronic poisoning remedy potion
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 F packet- Ghost green sheet
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 G- Ghost soul attack ability
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 H- Ghost revival ability
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 I- shiny diadem blessing
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 J- dusty diadem blessing
\f2\fs24 \

\f1\fs30 K- whisperer
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs30 \cf0 L- Thoesi\'92s new-soul bluesheet}